# Cascading Deployment

<div class="tips info">
  <p><span></span>Coming soon...</p>
  <p>
    The cascading release managed by a root node with a set of admin
    keys is not available yet.
  </p>
</div>

Managing an entire blockchain system that exists on many nodes with
different key pairs with chains that join in myriad ways can be a
headache to manage. Cascading deployment offers a way to maintain a
blockchain network from a single point of change.


## Permission to deploy

Entirely governed by the permissions of the machine you are on to access
the root chain. Deployment is always done by the machines global
hypervisor, rather than the temporary hypervisor that runs in dev mode.


## Dynamic vs. Static Chains

Static chains are chains that make up the supporting structure of your
system. They are chains that do not change often and support other
chains. These static chains are defined in the Interbit manifest file
and are managed by the root node and interbit-cli. Static chains are
created during the deployment of your system.

Dynamic chains are chains that are created during the operation of your
system. These chains may be ephemeral chains or last for a long period.
These chains are created by smart contracts on chains already running
within your system. The chain or process that creates a dynamic chain is
responsible for updating and managing the dynamic chain's lifecycle.

Dynamic chains are NOT specified in the manifest and are NOT supported
by cascading deployment.

New covenants for these chains can be deployed to a network through the
manifest but they will not by applied to dynamic chains.


## Concepts in Cascading Deployment

There are several important concepts used to implement cascading
deployment in an Interbit blockchain network.


### The Interbit Configuration File

The configuration file is a JavaScript (.js) file that contains
instructions on generating a collection of build artifacts.

Contains:

- expressions for resolving variables for:
  - pubkeys /  chainIds (basically permission resolvers)
  - chain Ids
  - covenant hashes
  - peer lists
  - path to folder containing index.html and other static assets to be
    hosted. `index.html` is altered by the build step to include
    chain Ids
  - array of supporting static files that should be hosted statically

- composition instructions for
  - joins
  - mapping of chains to covenants
  - tree of parent child relationships

Config files are JavaScript so that you can use env files and other
JavaScript functions such as importing other config files and composing
many. Consider the case of platform development -- a top level config
file could run all the covenants across the whole platform as a single
interbit hypervisor in dev mode.

Running `interbit build` for a configuration file will generate an
Interbit manifest file and a set of corresponding artifacts.


### The Interbit Manifest File

The Manifest file contains statements about how to deploy the build
artifacts to a specific environment.  These files can be used to upgrade
an existing environment.

The files contain no unresolved aliases or inconsistencies between
aliases. Basically, there are no variables in a manifest -- everything
is resolved to either a chainId, or a covenantHash, or a public key.

Manifest files are always named after the input config file.

Manifest files are JSON because they contain no computation, and only
act as resolution for variables. They are statements.

In addition to resolving instructions from a configuration file about
your configured chains, the manifest file adds deployment instructions
for a root node that manages upgrading your blockchain network should
you deploy an upgraded manifest in the future.


### The Root Node

The root node contains a copy of the deployed manifest file and a write
join to each of your high level chains. The high level chains in turn
contain a write join to their children etc. This write join allows your
root node to forward updates to the manifest to your chains when the
manifest is updated. These updates will be cascaded to child chains
until all network updates have been applied.

A configuration file and resulting manifest must describe an acyclic
network for cascading deployment to work. The network shape must be a
tree and cannot contain cycles.


#### Root Covenant

The root node covenant must be a part of all covenants that wish to
enforce cascading deployment. If the root node covenant is not applied
to a smart contract the chain will not automatically apply updates and
deployments and system upgrades must be managed in another way.


### The Interbit CLI

The interbit CLI can generate and deploy manifest files and watch the
chains for updates to the root manifest configuration. Running `interbit
build` on a valid configuration will generate a deployable manifest
file. Running `interbit deploy` will take a manifest file and deploy a
node based on the instructions in the manifest and passed through
command line options.

This will spin up a set of watchers that will apply any updates to the
chain when a new manifest is deployed.


#### Root Watcher

The root watcher watches the root node for CLI level update commands. If
there is a difference in a newly deployed manifest compared to the
previous manifest the root watcher will apply some of the changes.

The root watcher
- deploys and applies covenants
- creates new chains
- removes chains that are no longer in the manifest


#### Chain Watchers

One chain watcher is created for each chain that is running on a
deployed node. Each chain watcher:

 - applies join changes for that chain
 - subscribes to state updates so no extra load is placed on the network
